git log --name-only   -> show the committed file
git log  -> show author, commit message, time
git log --oneline   -> to display in one line - compact size
git checkout -b branch-name  -> to create new branch and switch
git branch branch-name -> to create new branch
git checkout branch-name -> to switch to branch
git branch -> show list of branches
git branch -d branch-name -> delete branch


merge:
git merge another-branch 
fast-forward
no-fast-forward


git remote add origin https://   -> origin - alias name
git push origin master   -> origin - alias,  master - branch name

git clone https  -> Full download of project

git fetch origin master  (in fetch, remote commit is stored separately and need to merge separately)

git pull origin master (combination of fetch and merge)

git branch -a (to show all branches including remote)

git commit -am "message" file-name   (a is used to automatically stage )


fork:
create a parallel copy of project without impacting original project
no need of create branch
first fork the repository and then to pull request to merge the change.


rebasing:
adding our own changes on top of master branch
git rebase master  (first move to the branch and the give source branch as master)


interactive rebasing:
used to interatviley rebase the commits. For ex: change from 4 commits to 1 commit.
git rebase -i HEAD~4 (last 4 commits)
file will be opened , use squash instead of pick.
another file will be opened and give the commit message.


cherry picking:
git cherry-pick commit-hash
Used to include selected commit from master branch to working branch.


resetting and reverting:
git revert commit-id   -> reverse the commit . it helps to undo changes and keep commit history.
git reset --soft HEAD~1    (1 refers to 1st latest commit. thorugh reversed, it still have copy. it can see by git status)
git reset --hard HEAD~1   (it doesnot have copy of reversed commit and not show in git status)


Stashing:

to move changes from staging area to stash area
stash area is like queue to add multiple changes

git stash list   -> shows list of stash
git stash show stash{0}  -> shows detailed information on stash like file name.
git stash pop (to move from stash to staging area)


reflog:

git reflog  -> gives additional info like commit status








